a giant monster suddenly materializes
and attacks a city in south korea a
young woman living in the united states
then finds out that she has a lot in
common with the creature and embarks on
a mission to find out how only to
uncover even more of a mystery welcome
to movie splain in today's video we'll
be recapping a film called colossal
enjoy this video the film opens in seoul
south korea a little girl and her mother
are walking through a park for the girls
doll after she finds the doll lightning
strikes in the sky a giant monster
manifests out of thin air and begins
walking through the city the little girl
screams in horror new york city 25 years
later gloria is coming home early in the
morning while hungover she tries to
explain her situation to her boyfriend
tim but he's had enough of her coming
home at odd hours drunk and not being
able to hold a job he tells her he's
packed up her things and that he wants
her out of there tim leaves gloria
sitting there in disbelief after he's
gone some of her friends come into the
apartment to start partying gloria moves
from the city to her old hometown into
her parents old home while walking home
with an inflatable mattress she is
spotted on the street by her old
childhood friend oscar they catch up and
he invites her to join him at the bar
that he inherited from his father there
gloria meets oscar's other friends garth
and joel the latter whom gloria finds
attractive the four of them drink in a
part of the bar that gloria remembers
from a while ago as it has horses
painted on the walls joel attempts to
kiss gloria at one point but she pulls
back as oscar yells at joel gloria walks
home drunk while hauling the mattress in
a bag across her back she passes through
the park and over the playground when
gloria wakes up she gets a call from her
sister to check out the news gloria
opens her laptop and sees an article and
video of a monster attack in seoul she
is horrified to see this she calls tim
about what she saw but he tells her that
happened about nine hours ago he
suspects that she's been drinking all
day and he doesn't want to talk to her
in that condition oscar gives gloria a
job to work at the bar she spends her
time drinking and hanging out with oscar
and the boys again she goes home drunk
through the park again gloria wakes up
and sees that the monster reappeared in
seoul oscar shows up at her house as she
is seeing this on the news he comforts
her as she is still freaked out but as
gloria looks at the tv
she sees that the monster is scratching
its head with one hand while holding the
other hand to its ear which is something
gloria did earlier that she identifies
as a tick where she constantly scratches
her head she was also on the phone
during that time when gloria looks
further into the footage of the monster
she sees that it looks as if it is
carrying something on its back like how
she carried the mattress on her back
around the same time gloria begins to
theorize that she may have something to
do with the monster she retraces her
steps to find that at the time the
monster showed up she was walking
through the playground so she begins to
map out the playground and then using a
map of soul she pinpoints and plots down
where each individual building and
pathway may be so that when she tests
this theory she knows how to step into
the playground so that she doesn't
damage any buildings or hurt or kill
anyone gloria goes by the park around
the same time that the monster was
reported to start attacking she lifts
one arm up in the air and then raises
both arms when she sees the news later
the monster has mimicked her exact same
movements she falls onto her mattress
and faints she wakes up to find that
it's deflated she gets a call from tim
who is concerned about her and just
checking up on her oscar and joel then
bring her a sofa to sleep on while
they're discussing the monster's attacks
garth tells them of a theory he has
about the monster that it's being
controlled and doesn't really have a
consciousness or know that it even is a
monster he thinks this because even
though the buildings are up to its waist
or even up to its head it just walks
right through them it never looks around
or acknowledges the buildings or
surroundings even when it first showed
up instead it just kept walking forward
as if nothing was in its path while they
are drinking later that evening gloria
decides to tell them about her
connection to the monster telling them
to keep it a secret before she reveals
it to them she brings oscar garth and
joel by the park around 805 which is the
time that the monster usually starts to
emerge she tells them to pull up live
streams gloria then starts dancing and
the monster starts doing the same moves
after a while the guys notice what's
going on joel thinks it's a prank but
the monster still does what gloria does
she starts to feel pain like pinches on
her torso they inform her that
helicopters are shooting missiles at the
monster which physically affects gloria
as well she makes punching gestures as a
joke but the monster does actually punch
the helicopter causing it to burst into
flames and crash they tell her that the
monster had killed the people in the
helicopter and she begins to panic she
then stumbles drunkenly and falls
unconscious she wakes up at her place
the news then shows that the monster's
fall caused serious destruction and
killed many people gloria becomes
distraught and guilt-ridden oscar goes
to her house and brings her a newspaper
showing that after the monster fell a
giant robot had materialized out of thin
air and joined it that was the point at
which oscar stepped into the park
playground so he believes that the robot
is him while gloria is still freaked out
by having indirectly killed people oscar
isn't too bothered by being a robot with
his help they find a korean man who
helps them translate a message gloria
goes by the park and makes the people of
soul step away from the monster as she
begins to write a message into the
ground the message translates to i'm
sorry it was a mistake it won't happen
again the opinion on the monster changes
now having people believe it means well
gloria goes over to joel's place where
they hook up and she spends the night
gloria wakes up the next morning and
sees the robot on tv she rushes to the
park with joel to find oscar and garth
drunk in the playground at this point
it's made clear that only oscar and
gloria can cause the robot and monster
to materialize within the city of seoul
oscar is being careless and foolish
gloria decides to step into the
playground and commands him to leave
gloria slaps oscar making it look like
the monster and robot are fighting oscar
then leaves as the robot also leaves the
city and the people of seoul cheer on
the monster gloria starts to do better
by not drinking so much however oscar
starts to seem more hostile and
antagonistic as he drinks he tells
gloria to have a beer and she refuses
until he says he will go to the park if
she doesn't take it she takes the beer
and pours it out in front of him oscar
then leaves drunkenly with jewel while
gloria chases after him they both arrive
at the park where they as well as the
monster and robot begin to fight again
they fight until they fall to the ground
and then they both leave the next day
joel comes over with a bunch of
furniture for gloria's house that oscar
sent as an apology tim contacts gloria
she visits him at a holiday inn they
argue when gloria mentions she's working
at the bar even though tim previously
dumped her for losing her last job they
later go to the bar where oscar is
already drunk and being a dick with
customers he takes out a massive
firework that he and his friends bought
long ago and were saving for a special
occasion the other patrons clear out as
oscar lights it sending fireworks
everywhere the fire breaks out oscar did
this only to show the both of them that
he is in control when tim asks gloria to
leave with him oscar tells tim that even
though he did such an irresponsible
thing gloria will stay with him instead
of leave with tim he then glances at
gloria and she realizes what he will do
if she leaves she decides to stay and
tim then goes away later that evening
she goes home to find oscar at her house
he had come in with spare keys that her
parents had given his parents a long
time ago he then tells her to sit down
while he talks down to her as if he
controls her life now while he's
speaking she begins to remember
something about him through a flashback
we see gloria and oscar as children on
the way to school with models they made
for class projects she has built a model
of soul the wind blows gloria's model
away out of her hands oscar goes into
the woods and finds gloria's model but
he starts stomping on it spitefully
gloria follows him into the woods and
sees this lightning then strikes in the
air hitting both children in the head
out of their bags spill toys that
resemble the monster and the robot
gloria tells oscar that she figures his
behavior comes from the fact that he
hates himself they start fighting and
destroying furniture until oscar runs
out gloria follows oscar as he goes to
the park she tries to stop him leading
to another monster robot fight in seoul
however oscar starts to strike gloria
eventually knocking her down he tells
her that if she leaves he will continue
to rampage through the city as he stomps
around the park we hear the sounds of
people in soul screaming in terror as
the robot stomps through the city
while gloria lies helpless on the ground
gloria then gets an idea of how to stop
this she leaves her parents home oscar
comes by and sees that she's gone she
takes a plane to seoul as the city is
being evacuated meanwhile oscar is drunk
and walking into the park so the robot
materializes over the city the people
run from it but gloria walks toward it
oscar is about to stomp onto some people
when he is stopped by the shaking of the
ground the monster emerges and walks
toward him until it is standing over him
he runs away in terror and the robot
runs across the ocean gloria moves
forward and grabs the air which makes
the monster grab oscar and makes it look
like the robot is being picked up by an
invisible force oscar starts crying and
yells at the monster to put him down he
swears at gloria she then makes the
monster throw oscar into the distance
while the robot also flies through the
air the people of soul cheer as the
robot is gone gloria walks away from the
scene as it is being reported on joel
sees her on tv behind the anchor woman
commentating on the scene gloria walks
into a small restaurant looking like
she's about to cry the woman behind the
counter asks if she wants food gloria
says yes and then offers to tell the
woman a story the woman agrees and then
asks gloria if she wants a drink gloria
just sighs